---
title: Can We Get To The Good Part?
publish_date: 2023-03-30
disable_html_sanitization: true
---

### Let's Spice Things Up A Bit

In the previous blog post, I looked at something quite easy to understand, I took some elements from the sketch that I'll take with me when I end up finishing this assignment. In this exploration, I wanted to look at the possibilities of text... and what a world did I find.

Now the following example by [Ed Cavett](https://www.youtube.com/@DrawMakeCode) is definitly way out of my expertise, however I really like how it shows the what is possible with just text.

<iframe width="100%" height="500px" src="https://editor.p5js.org/EdCavett/full/ZRDmlKIkp"></iframe>

While the complicated nature of this sketch is way out of the scope of what I'll likely do, there are a for portions of it that do interest me. The first thing that catches my eye is the fact that each time an line of text is completed, it automatically resets and moves onto the next one. While there are many factors that allow the animations to occur, the key part of this reset is the impletmentation of two arrays. The first defined is defined early on, then once an if statement is triggered, it resets the array.

```
function lineMaker() {
  this.msgswitch = 0;
  this.target = [];
  this.dart = [];
  this.moving = [];
  this.lerpvel = [];
  this.size = 12;
  this.count = -1;
  this.close = 0.01;
}
```
```
    if (this.count > this.anchor.length &&
      endDist < this.close) {
      this.count = last;
      this.restart();
    }
```
```
  this.restart = function() {
    this.target = [];
    this.dart = [];
    this.moving = [];
    this.lerpvel = [];
    this.count = 0;
  }
  ```

  The key part I'm taking away from this is that if an `if()` statement is met, an array can be reset to reset, or alter, some animations!

  ---

  Another part of this example that intrests me is the `msg.push()`. Because this isn't done in your typical `text()` syntax. The added bonus of doing the text in this method from what I observed was the fact that once the array reset, it moved onto the next message!

  ```
  msg.push("NEON TEXT");
  msg.push("with p5.js");
  ```

  I'll need to investiagate this a bit more, but looking into a way more advanced sketch does give me a bit of insight into the potential of this task.