---
title: A1 | Inside the Sandbox
publish_date: 2023-03-31
disable_html_sanitization: true
---

### Let's play

Now that I've done a bit of exploration with other people's examples, I want to know have a look creating some things from scratch as a test from the assignment. Below is what I came up with quickly.

<iframe width = "576" height = "324" src="https://editor.p5js.org/DJam98/full/aQmgNAM_h"></iframe>

The main concepts I wanted to play around with in this experimentation is importing custom fonts, playing around with variables as well as colours, and to test out some `if()` statements.

I actually had some issues with importing the font, but I realised it was quite a simple solution, and that was putting apostrophe surrounding the file path... oops
```
function preload () {
  myFont = loadFont('font/A_Font_with_Serifs.ttf')
 }
 ```
The other aspect of the font that I needed to do, was to make sure it was assigned to a variable, which was done with `myFont`.

Next up, I wanted to make the text in the center of the canvas, and because our canvas is predetermined by the assignment, it makes it easy to calculate. At the start of my script, I've set two variables that are the center of the canvas.
```
  let xMid = 576 / 2
  let yMid = 324 / 2
```
Next, with the actual text I (re)discovered that JavaScript uses co-ordinates different from what I expected, so I had to center the text (luckily it was easy since there is the ` textAlign(CENTER)` syntax). Now since I had two lines of text, I had to make sure that the vertical was also centered, so just had to transform the top line `-16` and the bottom line `+16` (since the text size is 32).

Now regarding the variables. While yes, it could have been just as easy to have most of the variables just directly into their natural spots since they're only called once, but I wanted to make it easy to change aspects should I wish to change it, so I had them all set at the start.
```
  let color01 = ('#555555')
  let color02 = ('#ADD8E6')
  let r = 0
  let g = 0
  let b = 0
  let color03 = (r, g, b)
  let xMid = 576 / 2
  let yMid = 324 / 2
  let textContent01 = 'RMIT'
  let textContent02 = 'Creative Coding Specialisation'
  let frames = 0
```

Now, here's where I started to do a bit of experimentation. What I wanted to do in this experimentation was to have the colour change automatically. Now `frameCount` is great for having these things happen automatically, but on a modern day screens, that can be a bit too fast to be changing colours. So I wanted to try something. I wanted the change to happen on every fourth frame. Now while there's proabbly a more effective way of doing this, I decided to do an `if()` statement to detect if the `frameCount` was divisable by four. This was done in two parts. The first was to have a new variable called `frames` and have it be divided by four, like so `frames = FrameCount / 4`. Now I just needed to have the `if()` trigger whenever `frames` was a whole number. Thanks to a quick google search and [Geeks For Geeks](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/javascript-number-isinteger-function/) it turned out to be a simple line of `Number.isInteger(frames)`. All I needed to add was `== true`.

Then within the if statement, all I needed was a simple variable change to add values to the `r`, `g`, and `b` variables. However the issue I ran into, was that I needed to restablish the colour as a **colour**. I just needed to add this one line `color03 = color (r, g, b)`.

---

Now... let's take all of this into the assignment! See you there!