---
title: A3 | Let It Go
publish_date: 2023-05-30
disable_html_sanitization: true
---

In this post, I want to tackle something I needed help with when developing my project and one of the problems I previously had with PowerPoint.

I should also note that I've decided to progress with the Player One project rather than the one with Off the Dial.

The issue that I'm speaking of is the issue of accidentally going through multiple segments by holding the button. I used the `keyIsPressed` boolean from my initial learnings to detect if a key was pressed. However, if the value is held, this statement will always be proven true. If I place this within the `draw()` function, it will continuously just go to the next segment, which isn't what I want — especially being in a JavaScript format, as the values will increase much faster than they did previously in the PowerPoint format.

So, after some investigations, I found the `keyReleased()` function in the [p5 reference](https://p5js.org/reference/#/p5/keyReleased). The main difference is that this is an event function rather than a boolean value that can be tested for 'true' in an 'if' statement. This also means that I can't redraw any functions in this method; I can only change the values or strings of variables.

So while this method is effective at only allowing one key press at a time, it comes with the drawback of not allowing a redraw. So I'll need to look into ways to use variables and arrays to get what I want out of this function.